# Sleep Tracker in Ionic

The repository contains a large number files. The repository contains a sleeptracker folder with starter code for the assignment. Most of the files are generated by Ionic when creating a new (blank) project. However, a few files have been added to ease the ability to start making a sleep tracking app. These files can be edited, and you are not required to use them. You can also start over and create a new Ionic project from scratch by running:

    **ionic start**

from the command line. You may want to add variables and functions to these files, or create new subclasses. They are:

Three classes in the data folder: **sleep-data**, **overnight-sleep-data**, and **stanford-sleepiness-data**. These files provide some data structures for logging sleep data, with the latter two being subclasses of the first. Subclassing enables the two types of logged data to be displayed together (or not, as you see fit for your design).

One service in the **services** folder: **sleep.service**. This service provides static variables for storing the logged data and a method for loading default (fake) data.

You will likely want to create additional components, pages, or services to build your app. Running the following command:

    **ionic generate [featurename]**

will generate skeleton code for these files(documentation here). The decision on how many pages, components, etc. to add and what they contain is up to you.

There is also a readme.txt file in the root folder. The readme is more important to this assignment than to previous ones, as it is required to include justifications of your design choices. More on this a little further down.

**Setting up your Workspace**

Some of the packages/libraries depend on newer versions of Node JS.

Check what version of Node JS you have installed with:

    **node --version**

If you installed Node JS before this class, make sure you’ve updated to at least 10, such as with nvm or downloading the latest version from the node website. If your version of Node worked for A3, you should not need to update. But it’s worth checking the version number if you’re encountering issues.

To run the Ionic app, you will need to install Ionic through npm. To do this, you will install the Ionic Command Line Interface (CLI) globally with:

    **npm install -g @ionic/cli**

The Ionic project is already set up in the sleeptracker folder, but the CLI is necessary to run the project. You will also need to install the dependencies for the Ionic app. These dependencies are defined in each project’s respective package.json files. cd into the sleeptracker folder and install the dependencies with:

    **npm install**

When installing, if you run into issues which contain messages similar to “permission denied”, try changing the permissions of the node_modules directory. If you are still having trouble, ask on Zulip or talk to the course staff. It’s important to try to get the setup working sooner rather than later, even if you do not plan on working on the assignment until close to the deadline.

**Running the App**

To run the Ionic app, cd into the sleeptracker folder and run:

    **ionic serve**
    
This will start the app at

    **localhost:8100**
    
The default view will look like any other webpage, so to view as a mobile app, use your browser’s mobile emulation tools. You can read more on how to achieve mobile views at the Ionic Framework Previewing page.

Be sure the dependencies have been installed first via:

    **npm install**
    
Any code changes will be automatically reloaded.
